# Rufus

- [x] Create [[../design-showcase]]
- [x] Create [[../design]]
  - [x] Outline
  - [x] Move domain model stuff there
- [x] Sketch out two paths: Data Project vs Data Scratch(pad)
- [x] Markdown Pipeline notes [[../markdown-pipeline]] **✅2023-03-05 good start** 

Critical path right now:

- The plan of work for revised render pipeline (as needed now)
- Simplest version of that
  - Create sqlite database or similar with API similar to obsidian and use that

## Data Projects vs Data Scratchpads

> What you build is determined by what you want to do
> 
> -- School of obvious proverbs

What are we building towards exactly? Here are two options, both of which fit our overall [[vision]] of making data sharing easier:

- "Data Project": as per the name this path is about having something like a data project equivalent to github repo or a gitlab project. It has a similar home page with README (perhaps enhanced with data stuff) and a list of datasets and tabs for other key features e.g. visualizations, data APIs, workflows etc.
- "Data Scratchpad": Another route envisages something more like a data-enhanced wiki or digital garden. The home page would just be that ... a home page probably rendered from markdown. The rest of the site would be rendered pages. It wouldn't have specific sections generating for it.

Instinct is to focus on the latter -- even though original focus was on former. Why?

- Scratches our own "itch" e.g. re github.com/datasets/awesomse-data
- Scratchpad functionality would be needed for Data Project (to an extent)
- Gut instinct re the product: scratchpad is simpler with something simpler and build up. What's the simplest thing: create a page and go. The simplest thing is a README. etc. 

> What you build and what you want to do are in a dance together. Tools shape what we can/want to do and vice versa.
> 
> -- School of not so obvious proverbs

## Content layer design

Work with Nodes (aka Blocks).

Every node has:

- type
- metadata
- body/payload
- blob_type (? or inferred)

Types:

- text (markdown)
- blob

## Inbox

- [x] Create journal stuff in datahub next or not?
  - [x] What does that mean? **✅2023-03-05 it means having a journal folder and creating journal notes**
  - [x] Why / why not?
    - 👍 IME using journal as default location for notes is really useful b/c
      - reduces cognitive load of deciding
      - allows one to start braindumping immediately
      - provides a default capture location for tasks
    - 👎 messy and pollutes this repo with random thoughts / notes.
      - Against this: encourages us to work in the open, yay!
      - Plus can always just keep notes in repo and not publish them.
  - [x] Choice **✅2023-03-05 let's go for it**
  - [x] Next steps **✅2023-03-05**
    - [x] Set up journal folder
    - [x] Add first daily note (today!)
- [ ] The great big issue tree in the sky? A consolidated question tree?
  - [ ] Do we create it
  - [ ] What is it?

# Scratch

### Pipeline workflow

Use cases

- rendering a table of contents for the given page on RHS (do you do it at level 1 or level 2). Also note how this is rendering content on the page outside of the main text body.
- showing backlinks and forward links
- image assets

### Content Layer

### Blocks are the way to go

CMS have gone all block-y i.e. they use pages composed of blocks e.g. wordpress editor, notion.so etc. In a way blocks are just the good ol' dom nodes but with metadata and associated editor UI.

You also see this in headless editor work where they tend to talk about components.

We want to adopt this i suspect.

Concrete example: imagine a README.md with a dataset embedded in it somehow e.g.

```md
# My cool dataset

<TabularData src=""
```

Not quite getting the point across.

### Notion model

See [[../notion-domain-model]]